Transcriber's note: Unusual and inconsistent spelling is as printed.

[Illustration: AUNT HATTIE'S LIBRARY]



                         FRANKIE'S DOG TONY.


                                 BY

                             AUNT HATTIE

                          [MADELINE LESLIE]

           AUTHOR OF THE "BROOKSIDE SERIES," ETC., ETC.



           "GO TO THE ANT, THOU SLUGGARD; CONSIDER HER
                  WAYS AND BE WISE."—Solomon.



                              CHICAGO:
                     HENRY A. SUMNER & COMPANY.
                               1880.



      Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1867, by
                          REV. A. R. BAKER,
    In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the District of
                           Massachusetts.



                       AUNT HATTIE'S LIBRARY
                             for Boys.

                             SERIES II.

VOL. I. THE APPLE BOYS.

VOL. II. THE CHEST OF TOOLS.

VOL. III. THE FACTORY BOY.

VOL. IV. FRANKIE'S DOG TONY.

VOL. V. THE GOLDEN RULE.

VOL. VI. LYING JIM.



                       AUNT HATTIE'S LIBRARY
                      for her Little Friends.

                             SERIES I.

VOL. I. THE SHEEP AND LAMBS.

VOL. II. LILY'S BIRTHDAY.

VOL. III. THE CHEST OF TOOLS.

VOL. IV. MAGGIE AND THE MICE.

VOL. V. THE LOST KITTY.

VOL. VI. IDA'S NEW SHOES.



                                To

         NELLIE, ROLAND COTTON, ANNIE, AND FULLER APPLETON,

                  CHILDREN OF MY BELOVED NEPHEW,

                THE REV. JOHN COTTON SMITH, D.D.,

         THESE SMALL VOLUMES ARE AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED,

                      WITH THE EARNEST PRAYER

      THAT THEIR LIVES MAY PROVE THEM TO BE LAMBS IN THE FOLD

                       OF THE GREAT AND GOOD

                        Shepherd of Israel.



                             CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I. THE SOLDIER'S DOG

CHAPTER II. FRANK AND TONY

CHAPTER III. FRANKIE'S MUSIC LESSON

CHAPTER IV. FRANKIE'S NEW LESSON

CHAPTER V. THE STOLEN DOG

CHAPTER VI. TONY'S LOVE FOR HER MASTER

CHAPTER VII. CONCLUSION



                        FRANKIE'S DOG TONY.

CHAPTER I.

THE SOLDIER'S DOG.

DID you ever see a dog with a coat on? I am going to tell you about one
who was a great traveller. I think you will say it was a remarkable
dog, and will not be surprised that Frank was very proud of her.

But first I must tell you who Frank was, and where he lived.

In the beautiful village of W—, a few miles from the city of Boston,
there was a lovely cottage almost covered with woodbine, which had been
trained over the walls. In this cottage lived Mr. and Mrs. Colvin, with
their two sons, Edward and Frank.

Mr. Colvin had been a sea-captain, and in one of his voyages, he
brought home an English officer, who had been wounded in the battle
before Sebastopol. This gentleman, whose name was Jameson, had a little
dog Tony, who was greatly attached to him. They ate together and slept
together, and wherever Colonel Jameson was, whether walking the deck
or sitting near the helmsman, or standing in the door of the captain's
office, there you would see Tony, also.

One day the captain said,—

"Colonel Jameson, you seem very fond of your dog."

"Yes, sir," the gentleman answered, "and if you have time, I will tell
you where I found her."

"I should like to hear it," Captain Colvin answered.

"Well, sir. It was one day, just after a terrible battle; I was making
my way over the bloody field to see whether I could find any of my
comrades, when I heard a low moan, coming from a tent. I went in and
found a poor fellow with his arm shot off. Some injury he had received
on his head had made him quite delirious. I tried to bathe the wound,
but a little puppy lying close to his side would not let me touch him."

"To make a long story short, the brave boy died a few days later; but
not until he had sent messages by me to his widowed mother and sister
at home, and had given me his only treasure, his faithful friend Tony."

"I took her to my tent, and she has been true to me ever since. In all
the battles in which I afterwards engaged, Tony was in my pocket. When
I was wounded, she moaned until she grew sick."

"We understand each other very well, don't we, Tony?" he asked, turning
to the dog.

"Bow! Wow!" barked Tony, in a joyful tone.

"She knows I have been talking about her. See how intently she watches
my every movement. Here, Tony, stand up and shake hands with me."

The creature instantly raised herself on her hind feet, and held out
her right paw.

"Is that the hand you offer to a gentleman? Give me the other," said
the colonel.

But Tony knew she was right; and she continued holding out her paw,
till he said, laughing,—

"You think it's my mistake, then; excuse me, Tony."

Then the dog jumped on her master, and wagged her tail as if she were
very much pleased.

Before the voyage was over, Captain Colvin and Colonel Jameson had
become such good friends that the captain insisted the other should go
home with him.

At first, Frank was afraid of Tony, but in a day or two, he grew to
like her so much, that he was not content unless he could have her to
play with him.

It was surprising how quickly the dog learned to like her new home. Her
master could not now, as when he was on shipboard, feed her from his
plate at dinner; but after one or two meals, she submitted very quietly
and allowed Frankie to feed her from a plate in the kitchen.

When company came in, Tony had to be dressed up as well as anybody. I
forgot to tell you that every morning her master gave her a bath; and
then she lay in the sun, and licked herself dry.

Colonel Jameson was not an officer now; but he had saved a piece of
his uniform, which was bright-red broadcloth, and a lady friend of his
had made it into a coat for Tony, and trimmed it with the gold cord of
which the epaulets were made.

Frankie laughed merrily when he first saw Tony sitting in a chair with
her coat on. She looked so prim and funny, as if she thought herself
very fine indeed.

The next day, he begged his mother to give him a collar, which made the
dog look funnier than ever.

I don't think Tony liked the linen collar, which was starched very
stiff; for she kept turning her head from one side to another, and
uttering a low kind of a growl. I think she wanted to say,—

"Please, Frank, take off my collar. I'm a soldier's dog, and not used
to such things, you know."

But Frank thought the collar a great improvement, and told Tony she
must get used to it, if she expected to live in genteel society.

By and by, Mrs. Colvin basted into the neck of the coat a white frill,
which had no starch in it. Tony was so much pleased at this, that she
began at once to lick the lady's hand, and ever after considered her a
good friend.



CHAPTER II.

FRANK AND TONY.

AFTER Colonel Jameson had stayed a month or so at the cottage, and told
his new friends all about the great battles in which he had fought, he
went to the city to find employment. Tony, of course, went with him;
and then poor Frankie was so lonesome that he had two or three hearty
cries for his pet.

Mrs. Colvin told her husband she would try and find a dog for Frank, he
took so much comfort with Tony.

One day they went to the city, when, on calling at a friend's house,
there sat Colonel Jameson with his favorite in his lap.

Every one could see that the love was not all on Frankie's side, for
Tony seemed almost out of her wits with joy. She jumped up and down,
giving short, joyful barks, and then stopping a moment to lick his
hands and kiss his face.

Frankie was delighted, and mother had to remind him twice that he had
not spoken to the lady of the house, before he noticed that any one
else was present.

Colonel Jameson laughed heartily when he saw what a pleasant meeting it
was. By and by he asked,—

"How would you like to take Tony home and keep her for me?"

"O sir! I should like it very much, indeed. I would take nice care of
her, and let her go to school with me every day."

"I rather think the teacher would object to such a scholar," answered
the gentleman, laughing.

He then told Mrs. Colvin that he had found some business, and had a
very good boarding-place; but they would not consent to keep Tony. He
felt very sad to part from the dog, but as he found there were few
boarding-houses, where a dog was not considered a nuisance, he was
willing Frankie should take her, if his mother would consent.

It was some time before Tony could be made to understand that she was
to be separated from her master. When Frankie called, she ran to him,
but would instantly run back, and catch hold of the Colonel's coat for
him to come, too.

You may be sure that Mrs. Colvin did not like the officer any the
less because she saw a tear in his eye when he was caressing the dog.
She knew that he was thinking of all the dangers they had encountered
together, and also, how desolate he should feel on going to his room at
night, to have no little friend there to welcome him.

At last, the lady where they were visiting proposed that the Colonel
should take advantage of the time when Frankie was playing with the
dog, and slip into another room, when she would go with the boy more
readily.

This he did; but Tony barked and ran to the door, scratching with all
her might to get it open. But when she found she could not, she allowed
her next loved friend to take her in his arms and carry her away.

When they reached the cottage, she was delighted. She would jump
up into a chair by Frankie, or down again, just as he bid her; but
whenever the door opened, or she heard a step on the walk, her ears
would be cocked up, and she would listen with all her might for her old
master.

Frankie was very proud of his power over the dog, and was continually
showing his father, mother, and Edward how quickly she understood and
obeyed him.

At last it came time for the boy to go to bed.

He brought a shawl to wrap his baby in, and said he should take her to
bed with him as Colonel Jameson did. But Eddy objected at once.

"I know just how it will be," he said; "Tony will bark and wake us, and
Frankie is such a sleepy head that he will not get up to attend to her,
and I shall have all the trouble with her."

"No, no!" exclaimed Frankie; "I'll promise to keep her my side, and
take all the care of her."

Mrs. Colvin, however, thought it best to have a bed made for Tony in
the corner of the room, where she lay, wrapped in the shawl, very
quietly till morning.

The next day, when Frankie was getting ready for school, he told his
mother he was going to take Tony into the seat with him.

"I am afraid your teacher will object, my dear," she said, "and the dog
will take your mind from your studies."

But the boy pleaded very earnestly that he might take her once. "I want
to show Willie Miles and George Holmes how she obeys me," he exclaimed.

He came home at noon, just as his mother expected, very indignant
because the boys had tried to stone his pet.

"The teacher wouldn't let her stay in the school-room," he exclaimed,
his face growing very red, "though I told her Tony would be perfectly
quiet; and so I had to put her in the entry, and when the boys went out
at recess they teased her dreadfully."

His mother comforted her boy by reminding him how pleasant it would be
for him to come home and have Tony bark out her welcome. So that was
the last of Tony's school education.

Every day, though, she learned something new at home. Even Captain
Colvin took pains to teach her new and cunning tricks. Whenever she
wanted anything to eat, she always stood up on her hind feet and asked
for it, and then she would bark out her thank you in the funniest
manner imaginable.



CHAPTER III.

FRANKIE'S MUSIC LESSON.

FRANKIE was generally a good boy; but sometimes, he did not like to
obey his mother, and tried to argue with her. This is very naughty;
for God has commanded children to obey their parents promptly and
cheerfully.

One morning, Frankie ran into the sitting-room, where his mother was
writing a letter, and said,—

"Ma, the boys are going to the woods for nuts,—may I go?"

"What time do they start, my dear?" she asked.

"Oh, we're going to get an early dinner! Ann can give me a piece of
pie, and I'll be off by one o'clock. Say, ma, may I go?"

"But, Frankie, don't you remember you promised to carry some yarn to
poor Nancy? That must be done first."

"But, ma, I didn't know then that the boys were going to the woods.
I'll carry the yarn some other day."

"Poor Nancy is dependent on her knitting for her daily bread, my son."

"Can't Edward carry it to her, then?"

"Edward has his drawing lesson."

Frankie began to look red and angry; but presently brightened with the
words,—"I'll run to Nancy's right away, if you'll let me. Tony may go
with me."

"Have you practised your music, my dear?"

The boy's face grew dark.

"No, ma, I haven't. I hate music, and I wish I never need take another
lesson, Mr. Lenox is so cross."

The lady looked grieved. "I can remember," she said, "when a little boy
begged his father to allow him to take lessons on the piano; and, when
his mother objected on account of the time it would be necessary for
him to practise, he exclaimed,—"

"'Oh, you never need fear for me! I had rather learn music than to
play. I will promise to practise the lessons as much as you wish me
to.'"

"I didn't know then how hateful music was. I wish now I need never see
a piano again."

Mrs. Colvin was displeased to hear her son talk in this way, and to see
him look so angry. She raised her heart in prayer to God that she might
rightly train this darling child.

Presently she said, in a firm voice,—

"Frankie, go to the parlor and practise one hour by the clock. Then, if
you can run to Nancy's before dinner with the yarn, I am willing you
should join your companions in the woods. But remember all depends on
your prompt attention to your music."

"It's lonesome in the parlor, ma."

"Your aunt is there sewing, and she will help you count the time."

Frank went through the hall slowly, as if to an unpleasant task; for
every day he grew more neglectful of his practice, and gave greater
offence to his teacher. The piano was already open; so, after spending
four or five minutes in finding the place in his book and pushing the
music-stool back and forth, he took his seat.

"How long are you going to practise," inquired his aunt, in a cheerful
voice.

"An hour," answered Frank, gloomily.

"Well, it's exactly ten now."

"But I've been here five minutes. I looked when I came in."

"Come, now, Frankie," urged the lady, "be a good boy, and I'll help
you. If you give your whole attention to it, you will learn the lesson
well in an hour."

Frankie's lingers Cell upon the keys; but his eyes had a vacant look,
and Aunt Sarah knew then, just as well as she did at the end of the
hour, that the time would be wasted. She took up her book again, and
the boy began to play over and over one of his first lessons, which he
could do without any effort.

Five minutes more passed in this manner, when Tony poked her nose
through the crack of the door, which stood ajar, and then made her way
into the room, barking joyfully that she had found her young master.
This was a very good excuse, the boy thought, for taking a recess; so
down he got from the stool, and had a fine romp with the dog on the
floor.

"Do you call that practising your lesson?" asked his aunt, laughing.

"My fingers ache so," he began; but she interrupted him.

"I'll keep the time for you. Five minutes lost already."

Frankie suddenly recollected the nutting, and, seating himself quickly,
began to thumb over the same lesson again.

"Now, Frankie, that's too bad!" she said, reprovingly. "Begin on the
new lesson. You have diddled that over and over till I'm tired of it."

A merry laugh from behind the door made them both turn in a hurry.

"Yes, Frankie, that's just it. You do nothing but diddle over that
one strain. I should think you would be ashamed of yourself when pa's
paying so much money for your lessons."

"Now, Frank, I'm going to lay by my book, and attend to you," said Aunt
Sarah; "you must give your mind to it."

She drew a chair close to his side, and, pointing out the notes, said,
firmly, "Begin there!"

He did so, and for a short time picked out the notes quite correctly,
his aunt counting the time for him; but a slight movement of Tony
from the floor to the sofa, which she thought would be an easier
resting-place, upset him again.

"My head aches terribly," he exclaimed.

"You always say so," muttered Edward. "I wouldn't be such a baby."

After this, it was quite in vain that Aunt Sarah tried to fix
his attention. He did indeed touch a few chords; but nothing was
accomplished. He complained continually that his head ached.

It wanted fifteen minutes of eleven when his mother came in.

"How do you come on, my dear?" she asked. "I'll hear you now."

"Ma, my head aches so dreadfully."

She looked directly in his eyes.

"It does truly, ma; I began right earnest, Aunt Sarah will tell you,
but—"

There was something in her face which prevented him from going further.

"Where does your last lesson commence, my dear?"

He reluctantly pointed out the page.

"Let me hear how well you can play it."

"O Frankie!" she exclaimed, after he had touched a few chords. "What
will your teacher say?"

"I couldn't play with such a bad headache, ma."

"Well, you may go to your room now, and lie down, while I carry the
yarn to Nancy."

Frank sprang from the stool with an eagerness which surprised them,
exclaiming,—

"Can't I go nutting, then?"

"Of course not. Take off your clothes and go to bed till I return."



CHAPTER IV.

FRANKIE'S NEW LESSON.

IN the afternoon, Mrs. Colvin went with her sewing to the nursery,
where Frankie was still in bed. Nurse had carried some bread and milk
to him there.

Tony was on the bed, too, and the boy was amusing himself with hiding
his pocket-handkerchief under the sheets and telling her to find it.

"Is your head better?" asked his mother, seating herself near him.

"It felt better right off, as soon as I stopped playing," he said,
earnestly.

"I was very sorry that you could not enjoy your favorite pudding, my
dear. Cook said she made it on purpose for Master Frank."

"Did she have that nice, foaming sauce, ma?"

"Yes, it was very nice."

Frankie's face flushed, and then with a start, he covered his head with
the pillows to hide his tears. At last he said,—

"I think you might have given me some, ma."

She made no answer; and presently he recovered himself and began his
play with Tony again.

He hid the handkerchief here and there, now under the pillows, and then
beneath the tick, when he would say authoritatively,—

"Go find it, Tony!" and she instantly obeyed.

"She is a very good dog," at last the lady remarked.

"Yes, ma, she minds me real quick. Sam Lambert has a dog; and he tried
to make the boys believe that Fox—that's his name—was smarter than
Tony."

"I saw him once. Sam had a stick and he threw it away and told Fox to
get it; but the lazy thing never stirred. He just whisked his tail and
stood still. I wouldn't have such a dog. Now see, ma, how quick Tony
minds me."

He hid the handkerchief again, for the twentieth time, and then said,
"Find it, Tony;" and she instantly darted here and there, pulling the
pillow up with her teeth.

"I see, Frankie; and I think I know a little boy who could learn a good
lesson from his dog."

"Learn from a dog, ma?"

"Yes, indeed! Don't you remember how Solomon, the wisest man, told us
to go to the ant, and learn industry and perseverance? We can learn
many lessons from animals, if we notice their particular traits."

Frank looked very thoughtful for a few moments, and then said, frankly,—

"I'm sorry, ma, I didn't obey you better. I acted just like Sam
Lambert's Fox. I didn't think of that before."

Mrs. Colvin leaned over the bed, and kissed her boy.

What do you suppose she was thinking of? She was thanking God, who had
put it into Frankie's heart to confess his sin.

"Why, ma," the boy went on, "if Tony had acted that way, when I told
her to do something,—I mean if she had fooled away her time,—I should
have got a stick and whipped her. Why didn't you whip me, ma?"

The lady smiled, as she said, "I preferred to punish you by sending
you here, and giving you time to reflect; and I rejoice that you have
learned so good a lesson from your pet. Obedience, prompt, cheerful
obedience, is the best foundation for a good character. You see what
a nuisance Tony would become if she did not obey you; and there is no
sight more dreadful to good people, than an unruly, disobedient child.
Such a one is sure to grow up disregardful of the laws of God and man,
and very often ends his days in a prison, or on the gallows."

"But now I want to talk with you about your music. You can remember
how very anxious you were to learn, and how many promises you made to
practise regularly. Your father is very fond of music, and cheerfully
paid the twenty-five dollars, which Mr. Lenox asks for teaching you."

"But, ma," urged the boy, "I didn't know how it would make my fingers
ache. If I could play nice marches like Etty Bowles, I'd like it
first-rate."

"Etty began when you did, Frankie; and I dare say her fingers ached
till they became accustomed to the motion. If you persevere, you will
soon be able to play marches. Every lesson you learn thoroughly is a
good step in advance. You know how easy your first lessons have become."

"Oh, yes, ma! I can diddle 'em off tip-top." He laughed merrily, as he
began to practise with his finger on Tony's back. Presently, he said,—

"Ma, if you'll let me get up, I'll play steady at it. I'll try to obey
you just as nice as Tony does me. Wont I, doggy?"

"I'd like to see you doing that," replied ma.

Frankie lost no time in tumbling out of bed, followed by Tony, who
seemed, by her joyful bark, to think that his young master had got into
the right track again.

I wish you could have seen the boy as he splashed the water over his
face and head. There was a look of resolution on his countenance which
his mother was very much pleased to see.

"Come, ma! Come, Tony! Now you'll hear some playing!" And down he ran,
happier than he had been for many a day.

When he was in the right humor, it only took one minute to find his
place, arrange the stool, and seat the dog in a chair near him.

"It looks awful hard, ma," he said; "but I'll do it." So he began,
slowly at first, picking out the chords of one line and then repeating
the strains until it became familiar. Then he went on to the next,
until he was himself surprised at his success.

"Bravo! Bravo! My dear child," exclaimed his loving father. "I doubt
whether I could play better myself."

Frankie jumped. "Why, pa, I didn't know you were here. Stop a minute,
please, and hear how nicely I have learned my whole lesson."

"How long do you think you have been practising?" asked his mother,
kissing him.

"I don't know, ma; I never once thought of the time."

"One hour and twenty minutes. You have done well, my dear child."

"And my fingers don't ache at all. They only feel stiff a little. Now,
ma, I feel as if I could dance, I'm so very glad. But wont Mr. Lenox
be surprised, though? He'll say, 'Frankie Colvin, take your place on
the stool;' and he'll frown and be all ready to scold when he finds I
haven't practised the last lesson. Oh, it will be fun to see him!"

"Why, Frank," said his father; "you dance and hop about for all the
world like Tony."

"I'm so happy, pa. This dear little doggy has given me one good lesson,
and I love her better than ever," he added, hugging the faithful
creature.

"It is a lesson," said his mother, gravely, "which I hope you will
remember as long as you may live. Prompt, cheerful obedience, in the
performance of duty, makes old and young happy. Now, my darling, you
shall take a walk with me; and then it will be time for tea."



CHAPTER V.

THE STOLEN DOG.

ONE day, Frankie was going an errand for his mother; and Tony, of
course, was following closely at his heels, when he heard the sound of
a hand-organ down a lane, and he ran to find it.

The organ-grinder had a box with dolls dressed in lace, dancing and
bowing in the funniest manner. There was a crowd of boys around him,
who were laughing merrily at the novel sight. Frankie laughed, too.
Indeed, I don't think one of the boys enjoyed it more than he did.

By and by, he thought of his errand, and was frightened when he found
he had lost the package of thread for which his mother had sent him to
the store. He looked on the ground near the place where he had been
standing; but it was nowhere to be seen, neither could it be found.

Then he looked behind him for Tony; but she, too, was missing. He
called, loudly, "Tony! Tony!" But there was no answer back.

"I saw a dog running off that way," said a boy, pointing in the
direction of Frankie's home. "I guess that was your dog."

Frankie looked in the boy's face, and, child though he was, he knew
it was not an honest one; then he started off for home, resolved to
tell his mother the whole story. The fright about Tony had made him
very warm; and he put his hand in his pocket to find his handkerchief
to wipe the perspiration from his forehead. But to his surprise, his
handkerchief had followed Tony and the package.

He ran now as fast as he could go, looking in every direction for the
lost dog, and calling, "Tony! Tony! Good doggy!"

When he reached home, his mother was standing at the door, and she
wondered to see him so flushed, and that the dog was not with him.

"O ma!" he began. "Have you seen Tony, and my handkerchief? and your
thread is lost, too!"

Half crying, he told his mother what had occurred, at the same time
running from room to room in search, for the dog.

Mrs. Colvin was soon convinced that Tony had been stolen. She told
Frankie to sit down and cool himself; and then she sent Edward to a
neighbor, who was a constable, to ask him what they should do.

Unfortunately the man was not at home; and they were obliged to wait
until night, when Captain Colvin returned from the city.

Poor Frank cried until his head ached, and could not eat a mouthful of
dinner. He kept saying, "Oh, I wish I hadn't gone down the lane! I'm
afraid they'll kill Tony, or starve him to death."

Captain Colvin accompanied the constable to the lane, where there were
a number of shabby tenement houses; but nobody had seen the dog, or
knew anything about her. At a late hour, he returned home, and found
Frankie had cried himself to sleep.

The next morning, advertisements were put up at all the principal
stores, at the post-office, and the depot; but that day and the next
passed without any news of poor Tony.

"I know she's dead," said poor Frankie, who now looked really ill. "I
know I shall never see her again."

A fresh burst of grief prevented him from saying more. He laid his arm
on the table and cried as if his heart would break.

His mother tried to soothe him, when suddenly she heard a feeble whine
at the gate.

Frankie heard it, too, and ran quickly across the room to open time
door. There stood poor Tony, with the lost handkerchief between her
teeth. She had grown so thin that she could hardly stand, but tried to
crawl forward to her young master's feet.

With a scream of joy, Frankie lay down on the floor by her side and,
patting her, covered her with kisses.

Mrs. Colvin rang the bell, and sent nurse for some food for the poor,
starved creature.

"We must feed her very cautiously at first," she said, as her boy began
to cut the meat from the bones. "Let her eat but a little now, and give
her more at the end of an hour."

"I wish Tony could tell where she has been. I'd get the constable to
put the people in prison, for treating her so. Look, ma! Here is the
rope they tied her with. I do believe the good creature gnawed it off,
and ran away!"

Tony seemed to understand what they were saying, for she tried to bark;
but she had not strength, and, instead, made such a mournful sound,
that Frankie's tears began to flow again. He brought a soft cushion for
her to lie upon, and soon had the pleasure of seeing her enjoying a
refreshing nap!

Toward the close of the day, cook came into the parlor and told her
mistress that there were two boys at the end of the garden, and she had
overheard them talking about the dog.

Mrs. Colvin at once sent the hired man to bring them to the house. But
the boys saw him coming and ran away, laughing, and shouting loudly,
"Catch me if you can."

The man said he knew the boys, and that they were none too good to
steal a dog.

When Mr. Colvin came home, he thought it was best to let the constable
know that he had found out the names of the thieves. When he reached
the gentleman's house, he found out that the two boys had already
been detected of crime, having only an hour before been arrested for
stealing goods from a store, and were now on their way to the county
jail.

When Frankie heard this, he lavished more caresses on his pet, and told
her she was safe now.



CHAPTER VI.

TONY'S LOVE FOR HER MASTER.

I AM sure the little boys and girls who read this, will be glad to
know that good care, nourishing food, and Frankie's caresses, at last
restored Tony; though it was a long time before she could run and jump
as she had before. It was quite affecting to see her try to spring
after Frankie's ball when he bid her bring it to him. She would seem to
forget for a moment how feeble she was, and then, quite exhausted, she
would lie down puffing and panting for breath, but keeping her eyes on
her master as if to say, "I would obey you, if I could."

Then Frank would blame himself for telling her to do it; and he would
ask her pardon, and kiss her over and over again. Oh, they were very
good friends, indeed!

Frankie's school was about a quarter of a mile from the house. Before
Tony was stolen, she used to go with him until they were in sight of
the school-house, and then scamper back as fast as she could go; but
now Tony was not allowed beyond the gates.

The faithful creature seemed to know when it was time for Frank to
come home. The first day she could crawl down the yard, she stationed
herself where she could see far down the road, and at the first glimpse
of his figure, began to bark out her welcome.

One day, for whispering, he was kept after school was dismissed.
Tony watched and watched, and, after Eddy came home, showed great
impatience. She even stole through the gate, and walked cautiously
toward the school-house.

At last Frankie came in sight, not running and jumping as usual; but
walking slowly, with his handkerchief at his eyes.

Tony was sure, now, that something was the matter. She sprang up,
licked his hand, and tried, in every way that a dog could try, to show
her sympathy.

Frankie was a proud boy; that is, he would not like anybody to know
that he had been punished, and was crying for it; but he didn't mind
telling his troubles to Tony.

"It was real mean of the master," he began, "to ferule me for just
saying one word. Sam Lambert asked me to lend him my new ball; and
I said it was at home. Master punished me; but Sam got nothing but
praise."

Tony had the poor, swollen hand now, and was kissing it with all her
might.

"Well," Frankie went on, "after all, I had rather have a good whipping
every day, than to lie as Sam does. The master will find him out some
time; and if he don't, God sees him. I'd be afraid ever to go to sleep,
if I was such a liar."

They were now nearly home, and Frankie concluded to wet his
handkerchief at the pump and wipe his eyes before he presented himself
in the parlor.

Tony stood by, looking very wishful; and then they went in together.
During all the intermission, Tony did not leave her master a minute;
but watched him closely, every now and then standing on her hind feet
to lick his hand.

When the boy started to go to school, she held the skirt of his coat in
her mouth as if she were afraid he would be hurt again.

"Frankie Colvin, you may walk up to the desk," called out the master,
when all the boys had taken their seats.

Poor Frankie began to tremble, but instantly obeyed.

"Samuel Lambert, take your place by his side."

"Now," continued the teacher, "I wish you, Samuel, to tell me exactly
the words Frank Colvin whispered to you this morning."

"I can't remember exactly, sir." Sam's face was as red as fire.

"You may tell, Frank."

"He said, 'Will you let me take your new ball at recess?' and I told
him that I had left it at home."

"Yes, those were the words. I can believe you, Frank, for I have never
known you to tell a lie. You may take your seat."

"Now, Samuel, let me tell you, that I heard you boasting to the boys
that you got off from a whipping by a nice little white lie as you
called it. There are no white lies. Every lie is, in God's sight,
black; and he has told us how he will punish liars who do not repent
and forsake their sins. You broke the rule of the school by whispering
to your companion, and thus tempting him to answer; and you have done
what was far worse, and broken God's holy law. You denied that you had
whispered, and bore false witness against your neighbor. How mean for
you to sit by and see him punished for an offence which you had led him
to commit! I am distressed that I have such a scholar, and shall be
compelled to punish you as you deserve."

He then took a ruler from his desk, and punished Samuel on both
hands,—the boy yelling with all his might, while poor Frankie laid his
head on the desk before him and cried.

When Sam returned to his seat, he raised the cover of his desk to
screen his burning cheeks. He was very, very angry; and, if he had
dared, would have been glad to knock Frankie down for daring to tell
the truth against him.

It was very hard for the good boy to study his lesson, while his
seat-mate was muttering so angrily behind the cover; but, remembering
his victory over himself with his music lesson, he bent his whole mind
to the task, and soon learned all the map questions in his geography
lesson.

The class was called to recite directly after recess; and Frankie was
standing in front of the teacher, when he heard a familiar bark, and
suddenly Tony bounded into the room and rushed up to him.

Then there was a knock at the door, and presently Colonel Jameson and
Mrs. Colvin walked in and took seats on the platform.

You can easily imagine how glad Frankie was that he had learned his
lesson so perfectly. He stood very erect, his eyes sparkling, his
cheeks rosy-red, and was ready with every answer, the moment the
question was asked.

"Your class appears uncommonly well," remarked the visitor. "I am glad
to see that a little friend of mine is so studious."

"Bow! Wow! Wow!" barked Tony. "So am I, — so am I."

Mrs. Colvin smiled and was very happy. Nothing makes mothers so happy
as to have their children do well.



CHAPTER VII.

CONCLUSION.

WHEN the classes had all recited, the visitors took their leave, Mrs.
Colvin asking permission for Frankie to accompany them home, as their
friend would remain only one night.

So they all left together, Frankie turning, as he went out, to make a
bow to his master. Tony thinking, I suppose, it was the rule of the
school, turned round also, and made such a funny little motion with her
head as set the whole school laughing.

I need not tell you that our little friend felt very happy. Instead of
walking along steadily with his mother and the colonel, he and Tony had
a chase, here and there, every minute or two returning to the side of
their friends.

Before they were half-way home, he determined to tell his mother all
that had occurred at school, ending with, "It's bad enough to be
whipped for whispering, ma; but if I had been talked to before the
school for lying, I should have felt so mean, I never could have shown
my face there again."

"And that is not the worst of it, my dear son," said the lady; "the
exposure before the school was mortifying, to be sure; but that is
nothing compared to the displeasure of our heavenly Father. There is no
sin which appears to good people more mean and despicable than lying,
and there is none which God abhors more."

"Well, mother," said Frankie, "I'm resolved I'll never, never tell
another lie. You know I haven't told one for a long time."

"May God help you to keep so good a resolution!" said Colonel Jameson,
very solemnly, laying his hand on the boy's head. "Be truthful and
obedient, and you will not only have the friendship of all good people;
but God, your heavenly Father, will reward you with his favor."

Tony, at this, sprang into Frankie's arms, and laid her head on his
breast.

Colonel Jameson smiled as he saw the little boy lay his cheek against
Tony's nose. He loved Frankie for the kind care he took of the dog.
After a while he asked,—

"Frankie, can you guess what brought me out here to day?"

"No, sir."

"I came to get permission for you and Tony to go with me to the
sea-shore. There is nice bathing there."

"Oh! Oh!" screamed the boy. "I'm so glad. May I go, ma?"

"Yes, dear. I have consented, on condition that you never go near the
water, unless in company with Colonel Jameson."

"I never will, ma. I'll do everything he says. Oh, wont I have a good
time! Say, Tony;" and he hugged the dog tightly in his arms. "But when
are we going, Colonel Jameson?"

"On Monday morning. I shall come from the city in an early train; and
you will meet me at the depot. Your mother has promised to fit you up
in a bathing-suit, and I will provide fish-poles."

Frankie sprang up the floor, clapping his shouting with delight,—

"Thank you, ma, for letting me go. I mean to be a real good boy after
this."

[Illustration: Col. Jameson, Frankie, and Tony going to fish.]

It was now Friday; but immediately after the Colonel left, the young
boy insisted that it would be safer to pack his clothes and have
everything in readiness for a start. He ran to the attic to bring a
small valise, and asked his father's permission to take it.

An hour later, his mother entered his chamber and found the floor
covered with caps, boots, shoes, books, balls, etc., etc.

"Why, what is this, Frankie?" she asked.

"I can't get all my things in, ma," said the boy, in a desponding tone.

"You will only want one change, my dear, besides your bathing clothes,
and that, with some clean collars, a comb and brush, and plenty of dry
socks, will be all that you will need."

"Would you carry Tony's new suit, ma? I wish I could; she does look so
funny in it."

"I think there'll be room in the valise."

"How kind you are, ma!" Frankie jumped up and gave his mother a warm
kiss.

Monday morning came at last; and the little fellow, determined to be in
season, had privately engaged cook to wake him as soon as it was light.
To his mother's great surprise, he walked into her chamber, just as the
clock was striking five, all dressed for his journey.

It was still two hours before the train would leave the city; and Mrs.
Colvin tried to persuade him to return to bed; but his father laughed
and said,—

"Let him stay up if he wishes."

At eight o'clock, he met Colonel Jameson and started off in high glee.
At the end of a week, he walked into the sitting-room with Tony at his
heels. His face was as brown as a nut; but he exclaimed, as he kissed
his mother,—"I've been a good boy, ma; Colonel Jameson told me to tell
you so."



